Now we're gonna move on to modules and
why I think there's really exciting and
kinda how they got here.
And really just how modules are just
consuming JavaScript in general and
not just Node.js.
So let's move on to that.
So if you're following along,
I'm on the modules page now
on the documentation website.
And let's kinda think about if we
were making a website right now,
JavaScript based website,
how would we share or
how would we include JavaScript
in other JavaScript, right?
So the obvious answer might be,
well, script tags.
Well, if you have a script tag, you can
put one script tag before another and
as long as there's something on
the global or something somewhere,
the script tag after the previous one
has access to the code inside of there.
And that's what we did for
a long time before modules came along.
So you'll see something like,
if you're new to programming,
you probably haven't seen this,
but if you've been around
a long time you've probably seen some
window.App = window.App or an object.
Because in every single file,
you would put something like this to
declare your global app that you have to
share across many JavaScript
files that you were including.
And then we moved on to something like
bundling where we would take all the files
and we use something like bowser or gulp,
and we will combine them into one file.
So we didn't really need
to do this anymore,
because everything was combined into
a single file at the end of the day,
even though they were
written in separate files.
And then something came
along from Node and
that's when we had something
called universal module syntax.
And basically what that did was,
it transformed all of
your files to be encapsulated
in their own closure.
So you can think of it like this,
it pretty much looks
like some type of function that
was immediately invoked and
all your code was
protected inside of here.
So because it's inside of this function,
it doesn't leak out to the global space.
And at the end of the day,
that's basically what a module was.
It was this transportable piece of
code that was shared across other
JavaScript files.
And that way they don't conflict with
each other, there's no conflicting,
there's no global space leaking,
nothing like that, and
you're able to access different
things by returning it.
So if I return something here,
I get access to it here.
So that's basically what these tools did.
So some of the first tools were
Browserify, if you ever heard of that.
Then webpack came along,
and all this crazy stuff.
These tools are what's called bundlers and
these bundlers created modules out of your
code, they allowed you to use modules.
So that's kind of how Node.js
got to where it is with modules.
Where we are now with Node.js is that
we have two different types of modules.
So we have the, for lack of better words,
the common modules cuz it's
literally called CommonJS.
But it's also very common to see
these modules where you'll see things
like exports, require, and literally
the word module, you'll see that a lot.
So what does that look like?
Well, let's make some modules.
So if we go back into our file here,
and we have a piece of code here,
let's call it action, it's a function.
Right now this is just a piece of code,
it's just a function,
it doesn't really do anything.
I'm just logging, hello, and
I could run this in the browser,
I could also run this in Node and
it would work the same.
It doesn't do anything,
I'm not even calling the function.
But the difference is,
if I wanted to share this action function
with another JavaScript file
somewhere else in my application,
in the browser by having
this in the file right now.
It's gonna be attached to the global so
I can access it via window
in the next JavaScript file.
But in Node.js, there is no window and
nothing gets attached to
the global space by default.
Because all your files inside of
Node.js actually get encapsulated in
own little module so they don't leak.
There its not gonna get attached
to the window by default.
So what you have to do here to be
able to expose this piece of code,
that way it can be used in another module,
another file,
is that you have to explicitly say I
want this piece of code to be a module,
I want it to be usable somewhere else,
I wanna export it.
So with the CommonJS syntax you
will see something like this,
you will see module.exports = and
then whatever you want it to export.
So in this case,
I wanna export the action function.
And what this allows me to do is in
another file, I can call it app.js,
I can say const action = require,
which is another Global.
It's a function and it takes a relative
path to another JavaScript file that you
want to bring into this JavaScript file.
So relative to the app.js,
I wanna include index and
I don't have to put js
here if it's a js file.
You're gonna find out we're probably gonna
use a different type of file that we do
have to put an extension.
But if it's for CommonJS and it's a js
file, you don't have to put the extension,
you can just exclude it and it will work.
So now inside of here, I'm able to have
access to that action function and
I can call it,
I'm gonna save both of these files.
I'm gonna go over to my node,
my terminal here.
I'm gonna run node.
Instead of running it
against the index.js file,
which just creates the function and
exports it, I'm actually gonna run it
against the app.js file which requires
the index file and executes it there.
So it's kinda like creating a dependency
tree, like a graph almost dependency,
so I'm gonna run it against app.
As you can see, it does execute the action
function which calls the log there.
So we were able to share
this action function here to
this app.js by using this module.exports.
So module.exports can pretty
much export whatever you want.
I could have wrap this in a function of,
I'm sorry, an object if I wanted to.
I could have done however
I want it to export this.
You might also see not so common anymore,
you'll see some people do exports.action,
which is the equivalent of doing
something like module.exports and
wrapping it in an object.
You don't really see this anymore,
so I don't recommend doing that.
I recommend just always using
module.exports at the bottom of your file
somewhere and then exporting
the things that you want to be export.
And the things that you
don't want to be export,
you just don't include them here and
that way they're private to this file.
So like I said, this is called CommonJS
and this is what's been the standard for
Node.js for quite some time,
it's what ships with Node.js,
it's the default module syntax for
Node.js.
But we're gonna use the newer one
because that's the future of Node.js,
it's the future of the browsers.
It's the attempt of all
the browser people and
the Node.js people coming together and,
okay, how do we simplify this?
How do we make it to where JavaScript
is truly universal across environments?
How about we start with the modules?
How about we get on board with the latest
module syntax that's been adopted by
the JavaScript ecosystem for
quite some time now?
And that's gonna be called the ES
modules or ECMAScript modules.
So that's what we're gonna
be using in this course,
because we have access
to it on version 14.
So that's what we're gonna do.
In fact, I think it was
introduced in maybe version 10,
don't quote me on that, but
it's been here since version 14.
So in order to do that,
a couple of things we have to do.
First, we have to tell Node.js what
version of modules that we want and
there's a few ways we can do it.
We can be explicit by
using the .mjs extension.
I know, another file extension, I get it,
I was kind of skeptical to .jsx, and
then .tsx, and all this stuff, like why
can't I just use js for everything?
But yes, mjs, which is module js
is an extension that you can use.
And by doing that,
you're going to let Node know that,
hey, I'm using ES modules in this file so
use that instead of the .js.
Another way you can do it is you
can actually go into what's called
a package.JSON, which we will talk about.
And you can just say I wanna use
type ES modules or whatever in here,
and it will still allow you
to use the .js extension, but
also opt in for the ES modules.
We're gonna keep it simple and
just be explicit that way
we don't confuse ourselves.
We're not in a place where we're not
really sure what modules are being loaded.
We'll just use .mjs for all of our
files going forward in this course so
we know what's being used
as far as modules go.
So get back to our code.
So we looked at what this looks like
if we were to export using CommonJS.
Now let's look at what this will look like
if we were to export using ECMAScript
modules or ESM.
So we still have our function here,
we can get rid of this.
And instead we could just put
the word export in front of it.
Not to be confused with exports,
which is CommonJS.
Exports is a CommonJS thing that
allows you to do exactly this.
Exports and
you will get rid of this const, I'm sorry,
you would say exports.action.
But the word export without the s,
not plural,
can be placed before a variable
declaration like this and
it's now going to expose this variable to
be able to be imported in another file.
So we're gonna save that, but this also
creates what's called a named export.
And the reason it's called
a named export is because when
you import it over here in this file,
I have to import it by the name of
the variable that comes
after the exports word.
So in this case it was called action
cuz I was the name of the variable,
from index and this should still work.
So we replaced the require function with
this import keyword because it's a named
export.
We have to wrap the brackets around
it to actually get the name.
And then we use the from keyword followed
by the relative path to this file to
the module that we wanna import.
So now we'll do that and then lastly
we need to rename these to MJS.
So we have to say mjs,
and this has to be mjs.
So once we get that,
we can save them, we can save it.
We can go back to our code and
now I can run node against mjs and
we still get the same result,
we get hello.
So this is the syntax that we're
gonna be having going forward.
I think this is really helpful because
browsers are now adopting ECMAScript
modules.
You can actually write modules in the
browser now which are really cool without
a build tool.
So you don't need something like webpack
or Rollup to write JavaScript modules.
Although you still need those tools
if you wanna make a PNG image or
a CSS follow module for
sure you still need those tools.
But if you just writing JavaScript and
you want to have some nice modules,
you can just do that
natively in the browser now.
And now that you can do it in node,
I mean the code is truly universal.
If you wrote JavaScript that didn't really
depend on any environment specific thing
that didn't need a polyfill, you could
theoretically just write one code and
have it executed everywhere,
depending on what the code was.
I don't know how useful that would be,
but you could totally do it.
So yeah, very powerful stuff here.
Any questions on these modules?
So the question was,
if I'm using CommonJS in a project,
could I gradually switch over to ModuleJS?
The tough answer is, it's the graph
nature of how dependencies work, right?
So if I have a MJS file that I just
created because we're switching over to
ECMA modules, but it's being consumed
by a file that was already there that
was CommonJS, well,
now they have to interact with each other.
So what runtime is gonna be
executed when that happens?
And then you also have
third party modules or
packages that you have to install that
may or may not also have those modules,
ECMA modules or CommonJS modules, so
it's really hard to determine which one.
And it also depends on how
you opt into the ModuleJS.
If you explicitly go into the package that
JSON and say I'm using this explicit type,
I'm using ECMA modules,
then no JSON is gonna assume
the entire project is that way.
Whereas if you only use the MJS file,
then you're opting in just for that file.
So to give you an example of
what that will look like, so
let's say we change this back to js.
And then instead of putting export here,
what I will do is const action and
I'll go back to module.exports = action.
In fact, I'm gonna keep it the same,
so I'll do that.
I'll wrap it so it's named.
We'll save that, and
then we'll go back and run it.
And you can see I do get
the same result here because
I'm entering the app from a MJS file,
here we go.
I pointed it to an MJS file, so
that's the entry point to the file and
then the MJS file was able to
interrupt with the CommonJS file.
Specifically because I knew that
imitating a named import and
CommonJS meant that I had to basically
export an object with the name properties.
Whereas if I did it the other way,
this wouldn't work because now MJS would
assume that this is like a default export,
right?
So if I ran this,
you can see I would get an error because
there's no such thing as action, right?
So if I got rid of this and
executed it, I get the same thing.
So the question is, can you do it?
Yes, you can do it, but
it's not as simple as just going in and
changing everything to mjs.
You have to figure out the right
module syntax to interact between
the different dependencies
that you have across files.
And depending on how many files you have,
that can be very tedious.
But there is a path there,
it's just not automatic.
>> Is the MJS extension a requirement?
I mean, can we use JS and
still make it work the ES modules?
>> Yes, so
if you go into the package.json,
there is a field you can add called type.
And I believe you put type module,
it will give you the ECMAScript module, or
there's a specific word that
you have to put there and
I'll look that up on the break and
give you the exact one.
I always just use MJS so
I like to be explicit.
But yeah, if you don't like the MJS
extension, which kind of gross,
yes, you could just opt in the entire
project via the package.json and
say everything is MJS that way I
can use .js and it still is MJS.
Any other questions on modules?
So the question is if I'm using some
other modules, whether it's like NPM, or
maybe it's internal something else and
they're using CommonJS,
but I wanna use ECMAScript modules
is there gonna be conflict?
The answer is, it depends on
how they export those modules.
The real answer is, it doesn't matter what
the conflict is, you should be able to get
around it if you can determine on how
they actually export their modules.
You could look at the source code,
you can see what they're doing.
With CommonJS,
are they doing a default export?
Are they doing a named export?
Are they doing something like exports.?
When you use ECMA,
there's a way around all of this, right?
So I showed you that this is
a default export if you don't
put brackets around it,
this is a named X, or
I'm sorry, this is a default import
if you don't put brackets around it.
And this is a named import,
if you do put brackets around it.
So it really just depends on how that
maintainer or the author of that package
exported those modules and
how you can interact with them.
But there is a path for
every scenario for you to do that.
And then as far as the ones that ship
with know that we'll talk about,
they're already supported by ECMASript
modules, so, they're good to go.
We don't have to wait on then to update
anything we can just start using them
right now without the CommonJS.
All right, so far we've just
been talking theoretical stuff,
not a lot of hands on work.
But this is just some of the stuff
that I really wanted to explain and
really want everyone to get the hold of,
to get their hands around, that way we
can actually start doing some stuff.
So the one thing I did
wanna talk about is some of
the internal modules that ships with node.
So it's kind of like the global's
that shipped with node,
you can think of them as that, but just in
a module form things that we can import,
that's already given to us without
having to install anything.
So, few of the favorites you'll
see like File System which is FS,
we're gonna use that.
Path which is great for interacting
with file paths and transforming and
manipulating them which
is extremely helpful.
Child Process is a really great one,
it's used for
spawning sub processes that happen in
the background that can communicate with
a main process to do tedious tasks and
CPU intensive tasks things like that.
And then HTTP, which is the foundation
of pretty much any server interaction,
any Internet interaction with Node.js.
It has access to the OS level,
sockets and connections and
exposes them via a JavaScript API
that we can find useful in Node.js.
So you could experiment
with these if you want, but
we're gonna go through a lot
of them in the next exercises.